---
title: "Milo and His Enemies"
date: 2017-03-02 16:24:10 UTC
created_at: 2017-03-02 16:24:10 UTC
layout: post
kind: article
author: "Altright.com"
categories: 
tags: 
source_post_url: https://altright.com/2017/03/02/milo-and-his-enemies/
source_twitter_url: http://twitter.com/
source_twitter: 
source_blog_name: "AltRight.com"
source_blog_slug: altright-dot-com
source_blog_url: https://altright.com
source_image_url: 
tweet_id:
permalink: /mntr/:year/:month/:day/:title/
feature-img: 
excerpt:
---
Milo Yiannapoulos was attacked, and perhaps mortally wounded, by the defenders of the “conservative” establishment and their liberal allies-of-convenience. The weapons of choice were his own words, including disturbing comments about his sexual victimization by a Catholic priest and a seemingly carefree attitude towards the abuse of other young boys. Thus ended a two-year saga. Milo rose to fame channelling troll culture and being associated with—and mistaken for—the Alt-Right. Perhaps Milo will succeed in making a comeback, but nothing can be as it was. Milo’s catch-phrases and monickers—“The Most Fabulous Super Villain on the Internet” and “The Dangerous Faggot Tour”—have taken on unsettling, indeed, criminal overtones. What’s certain is that Milo can simply no longer be a “conservative.” He might, like Jack Hunter, reboot himself as a kind of libertarian; it’s highly doubtful the Left will ever accept him after he was a traitor to his orientation. A likely outcome is that Milo will rebrand himself simply as “MILO,” as Breitbart began calling him in late 2016—a provocative gay entertainer, a pure brand, bereft of political connotations. What’s more important for us is why Milo was assassinated. Julian Assange recently observered, “When you read a newspaper article, you are reading weaponized text that is designed to affect a person just like you.” Information, like morality, is a weapon. And both of these were deployed by a strange alliance of shitlibs and cuckservatives. Needless to say, Milo was never Alt Right and was certainly never a leader or movement “darling.” Those insinuations were fake news. Milo spent the last few months angrily denying he was Alt Right and giving speeches against “identity politics.” If the Alt Right is about anything, it’s identity politics. The Alt Right itself spent the last few months doing much of the same. Andrew Anglin memorably called him the “number one enemy of our movement,” among other less polite names, making my criticisms seem rather soft in comparison. Yet even with both sides openly declaring their hostilities, the Regime Press frequently declared this race-mixing homosexual Jew as the leader of European identitarianism worldwide. And there was a deeper, Straussian motivation, which explains these misunderstandings and mendacities. Milo, along with Allum Bokhari, gave the Alt Right a sympathetic, if not particularly accurate, hearing in Breitbart. Had the piece not been authored by a sexual deviant and self-described “kebab,” it might never have been published. Despite it all, it was a major breakthrough. And like the commissars of the past, the Regime Press reacted harshly, for their role is to limit public debate and silence dissidents. Yiannopoulos—by breaking the cordon sanitaire around White identity and treating the Alt Right as comprised of rational people with real grievances and legitimate arguments—made himself an enemy. The footage that killed Milo was not new. It had been circulated among some on the Alt Right as part of the general counter-signaling against the “Dangerous Faggot.” (I had never seen it until that fateful Sunday afternoon in February.) Perhaps the most disturbing truth about this scandal is that Milo’s views about pederasty are fairly typical for many homosexuals. The mass media is already worried that people might start criticizing Milo in the wrong way. And our society has become such a cesspool that playing footsie with statutory rape is no longer barrier to fame and stardom, at least if you are staunchly on the left. George Takei fondly reminisced about being criminally seduced when he was 13 (albeit by a 19-year-old boy, slightly more morally ambiguous that the relationships Milo glorified). Lena Dunham wrote about molesting her younger sister, who is now a lesbian. Roman Polanski pled guilty to the statutory rape of a 13-year-old girl, and yet is the toast of Hollywood. And Bill Maher, who may rival Yiannopoulos for degeneracy and who insanely took credit for his downfall, defended Mary Kay Letourneau for having sex with a 12-year old student. He denounced her being jailed “because she won’t conform to what society feels should be the perfect American family.” Of course, Milo is a pervert. But perversion was his shield. In previous eras, one gained respectability by converting to the state church and being discreet with one’s immoralities. Today, respectability is achieved by dressing in drag and bragging about how many black cocks one sucks. Filth was what allowed Yiannopoulos to express mild disagreement with the liberal consensus on issues like immigration, “hate speech,” and race. It is being reported that Yiannopoulos went down for backing “pedophilia.” This is not true. He went down for backing pederasty, also terribly damaging to victims, but distinctly so. Besides showing, once again, that the mass media simply lies to us, why does this matter? Because the chattering class has been, quietly but dedicatedly, attempting to normalize pedophilia for the last few years. The smoking gun was Salon’s deleting of its “understanding pedophilia” articles in the wake of Milogate, which was noticed by a few conservatives. The Regime Press is crowing that a 16-year-old girl “took down” Yiannopoulos by finding the footage. But as the footage wasn’t new or unknown, this isn’t true. What “took down” Milo was a mysterious and unknown media operation—coming from what we’ll call “Deep Cuck”—and which might have been orchestrated by well funded and well connected groups, each of which was motivated to police discourse. “Milogate” was simply the latest example of what has become one of the most important coalitions in American politics—the Cuck-Left Alliance. Both groups have a vested interested in making sure “The Narrative” stays within carefully controlled boundaries. And both had a specific reason to call in a hit on Milo. For leftists, the casus belli was his appearance on Bill Maher’s show. Because Yiannopoulos once gave a fair hearing to the Alt Right, he was deemed worthy of being “no platformed.” Milo’s book deal with Simon &amp; Schuster and mainstream media appearances suggested he was on the brink of a breakout; “MILO” qua brand might become Too Big To Fail. The hit had to be […]<div class="">
    <i>Source: <a href="https://altright.com">AltRight.com</a></i>
</div>
