---
title: "Sweden Is Sliding Into Chaos — and the Media Is Applauding"
created_at: 2017-02-23 10:44:53 UTC
layout: post
kind: article
author: "Altright"
categories: 
tags: 
source_post_url: https://altright.com/2017/02/23/sweden-is-sliding-into-chaos-and-the-media-is-applauding/
source_twitter_url: http://twitter.com/
source_twitter: 
source_blog_name: "AltRight.com"
source_blog_slug: altright-dot-com
source_blog_url: https://altright.com
source_image_url: 
---
Sweden is the canary in the coal mine for the West. Originally appeared at Russia Insider.  Sweden has been dominating the news since Donald Trump mentioned the troubled Scandinavian country during a rally on Saturday in Florida. Trump mentioned Sweden while speaking about the massive transformations various European countries have undergone as a result of the ongoing &#8220;migrant crisis&#8221;. Here&#8217;s the line that got Trump in trouble: “You look at what’s happening last night in Sweden” — Poor choice of words perhaps but the context was clear. The lying press took this to mean that he was referring to a specific terrorist attack that had occurred recently. They gloated and guffawed with their typical smarmy snark and started one long collective gloat about how there wasn&#8217;t any terror attack in Sweden. Now they had him! Another example of the president propagating fake news! The only problem was that Trump was referring to a Tucker Carlson segment about Sweden. He clarified his earlier comments in a tweet. Trump then doubled down. The mainstream media jumped at his throat as expected, but this was a classic Trump misdirection. Trump has pulled this trick several times during the campaign, he leaves an opening for the press to swoop in. Almost always, it is a well-laid trap that ends up making the press look stupid and drawing attention to a topic that they had pointedly ignored before that point. Three days after Trump brought up Sweden, massive riots started in the suburbs of Stockholm. This time it was in the neighborhood of Rinkeby. And just like that, Donald Trump was vindicated. To top it all off, now, many blissfully unaware people are suddenly interested about the situation in Sweden. The media of course, was quick to play down how bad the migrant crisis had hit Sweden. They immediately started doing damage control. A foreign correspondent for the Swedish liberal tabloid newspaper Expressen fired back. She even came on Tucker Carlson. Her performance raised more questions than answers. It seems that Tucker Carlson’s careful prodding is also deliberate. He is keen to push the angle that Sweden is suffering from mass psychosis. A sort of country-wide Stockholm Syndrome. Speaking of denial And he is right, the country is run by an Orwellian-tier ministry of truth masquerading as a free media. The Swedish Media’s Complicity The media &#38; government have for decades used an array of different tools to gaslight and mislead the native population about the problems that these migrants have brought. One of the most commonly used tactic is to call any criminal, regardless of origin, Swedish. For example in February 2015, eight “Swedes” with names such as Abdi Mohamed Ahmed and Shakir Bjar Mohamed were detained for gang rape on a ferry. Out of the eight original suspects only one had Swedish citizenship, a man of Iraqi descent. Here is a an example of how suspects are treated by the media. The identity was deliberately whitened up with pixels. This is a widespread practice in Swedish media. As a result half of the Swedish population gets their news primarily from alternative media and 1/5th have no confidence in the mainstream media at all. Sweden’s alternative-media comprises of no less than 8 major sites which do a great job of exposing the lies and revealing the names and often pictures of “Swedish” suspects. (Fria Tider, Avpixlat, Exponerat, Motgift, Motpol, Nordfront, Nyheter Idag, Nya Tider.) Instead of changing their ways, the establishment has doubled down and back in October 2015 the political commissars in the Swedish police created a special protocol for dealing with refugee crime. Known as Code 291, the protocol entails covering up all ongoing criminal investigations related to “the migrant situation”. One anonymous source in the police told DN the following: “The situation is becoming dangerous. Anything that touches the immigration question is to be kept secret and my only conclusion is that there is some kind of political reasoning for not daring to tell the truth about the situation” But commissar Håkan Nilsson, who made the decision to implement the protocol denied such claims. “We’re completely apolitical, that’s not relevant at all” &#8211; In February 2016, statistics were released to the left-liberal newspaper Dagens Nyheter showing that only 1% of all police reports involved the 180,000 odd asylum seekers. Sweden has a population of 10,000,000 so that’s a slight overrepresentation but nothing major: “Dagens Nyheter has already previously been able to tell [readers] that asylum seekers and unaccompanied [short for unaccompanied refugee ‘children’] only represent a small share of the total errands in the police register.” The underlying message is clear. There is no reason to panic. The migrants who recently arrived aren’t committing that many crimes. Most of the criminals aren’t recently arrived migrants but Swedes. What they fail to mention is that said Swedes have names like Morteza Afzali, Mohammadi Aziz Ahmad, Rafi Bahaduri, Rustam, Ghafory, Hedayat Rahmati, Hashemi Salahedin, Mohammadi Salahedin, Mohammadi Zia and Azim Ahklaghi. (Forementioned names are the men responsible for the worst gang rape in Sweden’s history which has barely gotten any coverage in the Swedish press) The Elephant in the Room With a population of 10 million people Sweden is home to just 20,000 Jews. Being just 0.2% of the population they punch above their weight. Much of Sweden’s media is owned by the Bonnier family and a disproportionate number of journalists and experts have names like Wolodarski, Silberstein,, Radetzki, Rothstein, Aschberg, Leman, Epstein etc. Another example is Jersey Sarnecki, a Jewish criminologist who is trotted out on a regular basis to &#8220;debunk&#8221; that crime is increasing or that migrants commit more crime than natives. In fact, the father of Swedish multiculturalism was in fact not a Swede at all but a holocaust survivor named David Schwarz. The man gives Bear Grylls a run for his money because he supposedly survived no less than four (!) extermination camps (Buchenwald, Nordhausen, Dora, Bergen-Belsen). He contracted typhus and tuberculosis and was transported to a sanatorium [&#8230;]<div class="">
    <i>Source: <a href="https://altright.com">AltRight.com</a></i>
</div>
